# Performance Analysis

Before diving in to **PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS**, it can help to think about what your
**GOALS** are and the different activities that can help you accomplish them.

In general, the goals of performance analysis are to:
- improve end-user performance
- reduce operating cost.

It helps to state a performance goal in terms of something measurable;
such a measurement can show when the performance goal has been met, or to quantify the shortfall.

Measurements include:
- Latency: How long to accomplish a request or operation, typically measured in milliseconds
- Rate: An operation or request rate per second
- Throughput: Typically data movement in bits or bytes per second
- Utilization: How busy a resource is over time as a percentage
- Cost: The price/performance ratio

Bear these goals in mind when doing performance analysis. With BPF tools, it is far too easy to generate lots of numbers, and then spend hours trying to understand a metric that turns out to be unimportant.

Before staarting any performance analysis **ALWAYS** ask the question:
> **"Do you have a known performance issue?"**

# Performance Methodologies

## Workload characterization
*Workload characterization* is to understand the applied workload. The biggest
performance wins can be found by "eliminating unnecessary work".

Suggested steps for performing workload characterization:
1. Who is causing the load (eg PID, process name, UID, IP address)?
1. Why is the load called (code path, stack trace, flame graph)?
1. What is the load (IOPS, throughput, type)?
1. How is the load changing over time (per-interval summaries)?

## Drill-Down analysis
*Drill-down analysis*: finding a clue and then drilling deeper, led by further clues,
until the problem is solved.

Suggested steps for drill-down analysis:
1. Start examining the highest level.
1. Examine next-level details.
1. Pick the most interesting breakdown or clue.
1. If the problem is unsolced, go back to step 2.


## USE Method
For every resource, check:
1. Utilization
1. Saturation
1. Errors

First task is to draw a diagram of the software and hardware resources. You can
then iterate over them, seeking these three metrics.

## Checklists
A performance analysis *checklist* can list tools and metrics to run and check.
They can focus on the low-hanging fruit: identifying a dozen or so sommon issues
with analysis isnstructions for everyone to follow.

# Linux 60-second analysis
1. `uptime` ([uptime command](../../../COMMANDS/UPTIME/index.md))
1. `dmesg | tail` ([dmesg command](../../../COMMANDS/DMESG/index.md))
1. `vmstat 1` ([vmstat command](../../../COMMANDS/VMSTAT/index.md))
1. `mpstat -P ALL 1` ([mpstat command](../../../COMMANDS/MPSTAT/index.md))
1. `pidstat 1` ([pidstat command](../../../COMMANDS/PIDSTAT/index.md))
1. `iostat -xz 1` ([iostat command](../../../COMMANDS/IOSTAT/index.md))
1. `free -m` ([free command](../../../COMMANDS/FREE/index.md))
1. `sar -n DEV 1` ([sar command](../../../COMMANDS/SAR/index.md))
1. `sar -n TCP,ETCP 1` ([sar command](../../../COMMANDS/SAR/index.md))
1. `htop` ([htop command](../../../COMMANDS/HTOP/index.md))

# BPF tool checklist
1. `execsnoop` ([execsnoop command](../../../COMMANDS/EXECSNOOP/index.md))
1. `opensnoop` ([opensnoop command](../../../COMMANDS/OPENSNOOP/index.md))
1. `ext4slower` ([ext4slower command](../../../COMMANDS/EXT4SLOWER/index.md)) (or `btrfs*`, `xfs*`, `zfs*`)
1. `biolatency` ([biolatency command](../../../COMMANDS/BIOLATENCY/index.md))
1. `biosnoop` ([biosnoop command](../../../COMMANDS/BIOSNOOP/index.md))
1. `cachestat` ([cachestat command](../../../COMMANDS/CACHESTAT/index.md))
1. `tcpconnect` ([tcpconnect command](../../../COMMANDS/TCPCONNECT/index.md))
1. `tcpaccept` ([tcpaccept command](../../../COMMANDS/TCPACCEPT/index.md))
1. `tcpretrans` ([tcpretrans command](../../../COMMANDS/TCPRETRANS/index.md))
1. `runqlat` ([runqlat command](../../../COMMANDS/RUNQLAT/index.md))
1. `profile` ([profile command](../../../COMMANDS/PROFILE/index.md))
